Add Threat Intelligence Section (#7905)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/threat-intelligence/api/findings.md

## Get threat intelligence alerts

Retrieves any alerts related to threat intelligence monitors.

### Path and HTTP methods

```json
GET /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/alerts
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Path parameters

You can specify the following parameters when requesting an alert.

Parameter | Description 
:--- | :---- 
`severityLevel` | Filter alerts by severity level. Optional.        
`alertState`    | Used to filter by alert state. Possible values are `ACTIVE`, `ACKNOWLEDGED`, `COMPLETED`, `ERROR`, or `DELETED`. Optional. 
`sortString`    | The string Security Analytics uses to sort the alerts. Optional.                          
`sortOrder`     | The order used to sort the list of alerts. Possible values are `asc` or `desc`. Optional.                        
`missing`       | A list of fields for which no alias mappings are found. Optional.                                          
`size`          | An optional limit for the maximum number of results returned in the response. Optional.                          
`startIndex`    | The pagination indicator. Optional.  
`searchString`  | The alert attribute you want returned in the search. Optional. 

> ### Example request

Author: @AWSHurneyt: It depends, most of the parameters are fairly standard, so adding additional examples to this one most likely isn't necessary.

      "ioc_value": "example-has00001",
      "ioc_type": "hashes",
      "severity": "high",
      "finding_ids": [
        "a9c10094-6139-42b3-81a8-867dffbe381d"
      ],
      "acknowledged_time": 1722038395105,
      "last_updated_time": null,
      "start_time": 1722038395105,
      "end_time": null
    }],
    "total_alerts": 1
}
```

### Response fields

Threat intelligence alerts can have one of the following states.

| State  | Description  |
| :---- | :--- |
| `ACTIVE`   | The alert is ongoing and unacknowledged. Alerts remain in this state until they are acknowledged, the trigger associated with the alert is deleted, or the threat intelligence monitor is deleted entirely. |
| `ACKNOWLEDGED` | The alert is acknowledged but the root cause of the alert has not been addressed.  |
| `COMPLETED` | The alert is no longer ongoing. Alerts enter this state after the corresponding trigger evaluates to `false`.   |
| `DELETED` | The monitor or trigger for the alert was deleted while the alert was active.  |

---

## Update alerts status API 

Updates the status of the specified alerts to  `ACKNOWLEDGED` or `COMPLETED`. Only alerts in the `ACTIVE` state can be updated. 

> ## Path and HTTP methods

Author: ```suggestion
### Path and HTTP methods
```

      "version": 1,
      "schema_version": 0,
      "seq_no": 2,
      "primary_term": 1,
      "trigger_id": "regwarg",
      "trigger_name": "regwarg",
      "state": "ACKNOWLEDGED",
      "error_message": null,
      "ioc_value": "example-has00001",
      "ioc_type": "hashes",
      "severity": "high",
      "finding_ids": [
        "a9c10094-6139-42b3-81a8-867dffbe381d"
      ],
      "acknowledged_time": 1722039091209,
      "last_updated_time": 1722039091209,
      "start_time": 1722038395105,
      "end_time": null
    },
    {
      "id": "56e8-4f40-a12f-ab4c274d7521-906669ee",
      "version": 1,
      "schema_version": 0,
      "seq_no": 2,
      "primary_term": 1,
      "trigger_id": "regwarg",
      "trigger_name": "regwarg",
      "state": "ACKNOWLEDGED",
      "error_message": null,
      "ioc_value": "example-has00001",
      "ioc_type": "hashes",
      "severity": "high",
      "finding_ids": [
        "a9c10094-6139-42b3-81a8-867dffbe381d"
      ],
      "acknowledged_time": 1722039091209,
      "last_updated_time": 1722039091209,
      "start_time": 1722038395105,
      "end_time": null
    }
  ],
  "failure_messages": []
}
```

---

## Get findings

> Returns threat intelligence Indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding is automatically added to the threat intelligence feed.

Reviewer: It can simply be reworded as `When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding for that ioc is generated and accessible via the findings API` ? @Naarcha-AWS

> Returns threat intelligence Indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding is automatically added to the threat intelligence feed.

Author: Sure. Also, AWS and Azure both use IOC, which is why its formatted with all caps versus IoC. See https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/business/security-101/what-are-indicators-of-compromise-ioc.

> Returns threat intelligence Indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding is automatically added to the threat intelligence feed.

Author: ```suggestion
Returns threat intelligence indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IOC during a data scan, a finding is automatically generated.
```

> Returns threat intelligence Indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding is automatically added to the threat intelligence feed.

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS Oh what I meant was that both IOC and IoC is used in this paragraph.

### Path and HTTP method

```json
GET /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/findings/
```

### Path parameters 

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sortString`   | Specifies which string Security Analytics uses to sort the alerts. Optional.     |
| `sortOrder`    | The order used to sort the list of findings. Possible values are `asc` or `desc`. Optional. |
| `missing`      | A list of fields for which there are no found alias mappings. Optional.                     |

> | `size`         | An optional limit for the maximum number of results returned in the response. Optional.     |

Reviewer: yes

> | `size`         | An optional limit for the maximum number of results returned in the response. Optional.     |

Author: ```suggestion
| `size`         |  Limits for the maximum number of results returned in the response. Optional.     |
```

---
layout: default
title: Alerts and Findings API
parent: Threat intelligence APIs
grand_parent: Threat intelligence
nav_order: 50
---

# Alerts and Findings

> The threat intelligence Alerts and Findings API helps retrieve information about alerts and findings found from threat intelligence feeds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The threat intelligence Alerts and Findings API retrieves information about alerts and findings found in threat intelligence feeds.
```
?

---

## Get threat intelligence alerts

Retrieves any alerts related to threat intelligence monitors.

### Path and HTTP methods

```json
GET /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/alerts
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Path parameters

You can specify the following parameters when requesting an alert.

Parameter | Description 
:--- | :---- 
`severityLevel` | Filter alerts by severity level. Optional.        
`alertState`    | Used to filter by alert state. Possible values are `ACTIVE`, `ACKNOWLEDGED`, `COMPLETED`, `ERROR`, or `DELETED`. Optional. 

> `sortString`    | This field specifies which string Security Analytics uses to sort the alerts. Optional.                          

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`sortString`    | The string Security Analytics uses to sort the alerts. Optional.                          
```

`sortOrder`     | The order used to sort the list of alerts. Possible values are `asc` or `desc`. Optional.                        

> `missing`       | A list of fields for which there are no found alias mappings. Optional.                                          

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`missing`       | A list of fields for which no alias mappings are found. Optional.                                          
```
?

`size`          | An optional limit for the maximum number of results returned in the response. Optional.                          
`startIndex`    | The pagination indicator. Optional.  
`searchString`  | The alert attribute you want returned in the search. Optional. 

### Example request

```json
GET /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/alerts
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example response

```json
{
    "alerts": [{
      "id": "906669ee-56e8-4f40-a12f-ab4c274d7521",
      "version": 1,
      "schema_version": 0,
      "seq_no": 0,
      "primary_term": 1,
      "trigger_id": "regwarg",
      "trigger_name": "regwarg",
      "state": "ACTIVE",
      "error_message": null,
      "ioc_value": "example-has00001",
      "ioc_type": "hashes",
      "severity": "high",
      "finding_ids": [
        "a9c10094-6139-42b3-81a8-867dffbe381d"
      ],
      "acknowledged_time": 1722038395105,
      "last_updated_time": null,
      "start_time": 1722038395105,
      "end_time": null
    }],
    "total_alerts": 1
}
```

### Response fields

> Threat intelligence alerts can have one of the following status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Threat intelligence alerts can have one of the following states.
```
?

Reviewer 3: Or should the column heading by Status?

| State  | Description  |
| :---- | :--- |

> | `ACTIVE`   | The alert is ongoing and unacknowledged. Alerts remain in this state they are acknowledged, the trigger associated with the alert is deleted, or threat intelligence monitor is deleted entirely. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ACTIVE`   | The alert is ongoing and unacknowledged. Alerts remain in this state until they are acknowledged, the trigger associated with the alert is deleted, or the threat intelligence monitor is deleted entirely. |
```

> | `ACKNOWLEDGED` | The alert is acknowledged but the root cause of the alert has still not been addressed.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ACKNOWLEDGED` | The alert is acknowledged but the root cause of the alert has not been addressed.  |
```

| `COMPLETED` | The alert is no longer ongoing. Alerts enter this state after the corresponding trigger evaluates to `false`.   |

> | `DELETED` | The monitor or trigger for the alert was deleted while the alert was active .  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `DELETED` | The monitor or trigger for the alert was deleted while the alert was active.  |
```

      "version": 1,
      "schema_version": 0,
      "seq_no": 2,
      "primary_term": 1,
      "trigger_id": "regwarg",
      "trigger_name": "regwarg",
      "state": "ACKNOWLEDGED",
      "error_message": null,
      "ioc_value": "example-has00001",
      "ioc_type": "hashes",
      "severity": "high",
      "finding_ids": [
        "a9c10094-6139-42b3-81a8-867dffbe381d"
      ],
      "acknowledged_time": 1722039091209,
      "last_updated_time": 1722039091209,
      "start_time": 1722038395105,
      "end_time": null
    },
    {
      "id": "56e8-4f40-a12f-ab4c274d7521-906669ee",
      "version": 1,
      "schema_version": 0,
      "seq_no": 2,
      "primary_term": 1,
      "trigger_id": "regwarg",
      "trigger_name": "regwarg",
      "state": "ACKNOWLEDGED",
      "error_message": null,
      "ioc_value": "example-has00001",
      "ioc_type": "hashes",
      "severity": "high",
      "finding_ids": [
        "a9c10094-6139-42b3-81a8-867dffbe381d"
      ],
      "acknowledged_time": 1722039091209,
      "last_updated_time": 1722039091209,
      "start_time": 1722038395105,
      "end_time": null
    }
  ],
  "failure_messages": []
}
```

> ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

---

> ## Get Findings

Author: ```suggestion
## Get findings
```

> ## Get Findings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Get findings
```

> The threat intelligence Get Findings API returns threat intelligence Indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding is automatically added to the threat intelligence feed.

Author: ```suggestion
Returns threat intelligence Indicators of compromise (IOCs) findings. When the threat intelligence monitor finds a malicious IoC during a data scan, a finding is automatically added to the threat intelligence feed.
```

### Path and HTTP method

```json
GET /_plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/findings/
```

### Path parameters 

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                 |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `sortString`   | This field specifies which string Security Analytics uses to sort the alerts. Optional.     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sortString`   | Specifies which string Security Analytics uses to sort the alerts. Optional.     |
```
